# MLMachineShop
Objective: Machines shop produces products and machine operators are the personnel who service, operate and monitor products every hour visually and size check every hour. To stop a machine at the right size and not to oversize , not to undersize products, machine operators use common sense calculating in mind using experience as historical data to predict time when a machine is done. What if Machine Learning models or Deep Learning models would be used instead? What if to teach a machine to predict when it should be stopped inputting historical data in it and forecast?There are algorithms that already can do this job for the industry:ARIMA, LSTM, even Facebook Prophet which Facebook developed for this purpose.Techniques of time series forecasting could answer business questions like how much inventory to maintain, how much website traffic do you expect in your e-store to how many product will be sold in the next month. This project is an attempt to simulate a situation and to extract a conclusion from the experiment.

The dataset is engineered for simplicity of the experiment as simple and meaningful as possible to provide enough information for the algorithm to compute its forecast and ready to use without data wrangling.
● Tools & Methodologies: Time Series, ARIMA, Facebook Prophet, LSTM neural network, Python.
● Forecasted future size and time of a size shop machines cut:cutrate.
● Identified trends and future time of a target size is predicted accurately RMSE:0- 0.007505 with best algorithm used.
